[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was born in Uruguay.
And when I was born there,
there were no supermarkets.
My father and I used
to walk every Tuesday
to the local farmer's market.
And he knew who to
buy the tomatoes from
but bought the cucumbers
in a different place
because he knew
the guy took much
better care of the cucumbers.
And he used to talk to
everybody, know everybody.
And that's the way we
used to obtain our food.
So by default, I was in a
really, really healthy state.
I was-- I never suffered of
any diseases, any symptoms.
I was doing really well.
And I was exercising.
I was a black belt in Taekwondo.
Suddenly, I moved to New
York, hectic work schedule,
eating from hospital cafeterias,
nurses potlucks, which
are probably the worst
thing that I've ever seen,
and vending machines
or supermarkets, right.
Putting my food
in microwave ovens
so that I could spend
little time preparing
the food and more time working.
And I started getting sick.
I started getting pain in
my abdomen every time I ate,
which later was diagnosed
as irritable bowel syndrome.
I started suffering from
terrible allergies that,
at times, needed prednisone
and all kinds of inhalers
and puffers and creams.
And the worst part
of it, which is
when I started
looking for help is
when I started waking
with this sense of dread,
this sense of doom, which
was later on diagnosed
as depression, right.
Now, the incredible thing is
that the three specialists
that I went to, a
gastroenterologist,
an allergist, and a
psychiatrist, none of them
asked me what I was eating.
And they just gave
me medications.
They were chemicals
designed to thwart, to stop,
the symptoms that I was showing,
which, now, I understand
as the way that my body
expresses its attempt
to adapt and survive, right?
So basically, my body
was trying to survive.
And these medications were just
shutting my body off, making
the situation even worse.
That didn't work for me.
So I took off.
And I traveled to India
and studied different types
of healing modalities and
was exposed to many things
around the world.
But it wasn't until I arrived
in California in the year 2000
and I found this
cleansing and detox
center that I got rid of
all my symptoms completely.
Now, the most incredible
thing was that,
after my 14 day cleansing
and detox program
that I did for the
first time, the reason
that people stopped me the
most around in the hospital
and everywhere I went is because
I looked 10 years younger.
I felt 10 years younger.
I looked better.
My eyes were white.
My skin was glowing.
And that was what
attracted people
to wanting to do whatever it is
that I did so that they could
get the same results.
Well, I went into
medicine to begin
with because I had this born
desire and impulse to help.
But after I went through
disease and suffering myself,
that was multiplied by 10.
So my day is made when I see
somebody that was suffering
and whose life was diminished
because of a disease
and I am able to help them
create the conditions so
that their body recovers
their natural ability to heal
themselves.
And when you see
that, it's like,
I mean, when people like
plants and you go on a trip
and they come back and
the plant is withering,
and you just drop some water.
And when you come the next
morning and it's green again,
it gives you a
sense of pleasure.
This is what I thrive on.
Detoxification is important
because we are in what
I call an evolutionary glitch.
As we evolved.
We became more toxic
because we are eating things
with a lot of chemicals.
And there's chemicals in our
atmosphere, in our homes,
everywhere.
So toxicity is going up.
But the function of the
detoxification systems
is going down because,
as we eat more,
there is less
detoxification happening.
So this is an
evolutionary glitch
because it should be
the other way around.
As toxicity increases,
our detox systems
should be allowed and supported.
And this is completely
the contrary.
And this evolutionary glitch
may kill all humanity.
All the chemicals
that we are using
for preserving foods,
for coloring foods,
for making them smell good,
for making them taste good--
but not only that, chemicals
are used for so many things,
for cleaning, for washing.
These chemicals of
modern life that
are supposed to
make our life easier
are actually ruining our health.
The problem of
toxicity is not only
because of the chemicals
of modern life.
Even if you eat completely
organic and pure and healthy
food, but you eat it in
the wrong quantities,
in the wrong frequencies, and
in the wrong combinations,
that is also toxic.
So the problem of
toxicity is way
more than just the
chemicals around.
It's a problem of lifestyle.
It's a problem of habits.
It's a problem of man having
separated himself and herself
from the way that nature
designed things to do.
According to nature's design, we
should be naked under the sun,
running around,
looking for food,
and mating every
now and then, right?
That's what animals do.
And animals in the
wild barely get sick.
Or if they get
sick, they recover.
They stop doing
what they're doing.
They fast for a bit.
They drink only water.
They rest.
And they recover, right,
because their body
has a natural ability
to heal itself,
just like human beings do.
The problem is that human
beings' natural ability
to heal themselves is
hindered by the way we eat
and the way we live.
I think we're barking up
the wrong tree, you know.
People are looking for a
result that is superficial.
They're looking
just to look good.
And they don't really
consider that that could
be done from the inside out.
So people go into diets
and in all these fads
in order to lose weight
and lose weight fast.
And that's just not
the way to approach it.
The results prove it.
The problem is that we are
not eating food anymore.
We are eating foodlike products.
And they are adorned.
They are made-- look
better and smell better
and be presented so that
people are attracted to them.
And not only that, they
are also made so that they
can have a long shelf life.
Otherwise, the supermarket
would be losing money
and the manufacturers as well.
So the objective is not really
to give you a healthy product.
It's to give you a product
that will make you buy it,
that will last long.
And it will make a lot
of profit for the company
that's producing it.
The products come in some kind
of container, a bag, a jar,
a tube, a can, a bottle.
And this is definitely not
the way nature designed things
and provided food for us.
So things are
skewed a little bit.
Now, America loves enemies.
And America chooses an enemy
and deploys all its forces
against it.
So at some point, when we were
noticing that we were getting
fat as a population,
we attacked-- we made--
the enemy was fat.
And everything became
fat free, fat free this,
and fat free that.
And the calories that
fat were occupying
were replaced by
mostly carbohydrates.
That resulted in the fattest
country in the world.
So now we kind of came
in to that conclusion.
And we shifted enemies,
making carbohydrates enemies.
And all these high protein,
low carbohydrate diets
came into fashion.
And what these do is
a whole different--
they give a whole
different consequence
of problems, a whole
different family of problems,
as a consequence.
For example, proteins
are made of amino acid.
Amino acid-- ammonia and
another acid terminal.
So when you digest amino acids,
you become acidic in a way.
And high protein, low
carbohydrate diets basically
are acidifying diets, which
end up irritating arteries
and increase coronary
artery disease and all
the chronic diseases.
High protein, low
carbohydrate diets basically,
without people knowing, are
putting them into the state
that decompensated
diabetics get into when
they lack insulin, which
is the ketonic, or keto
acidotic state.
It throws people
into ketoacidosis.
Now, this is a diseased state.
But by some people,
it was observed
that these, the keto
acidotic diabetics,
are the leanest
people in the world.
So in order to
recreate that result,
they didn't mind putting people
in that state of sickness,
of disease.
The chemicals of modern life
are usually named, generally,
as xenobionics.
These are just molecules
that we put in our food,
in our atmosphere, in
order to make life easier.
These chemicals, as
they go into your blood,
first, they kill the good
bacteria in your gut.
And they damage the
gut wall, irritate
the immune system, 80% of
which is around your gut.
They also deplete
the nervous system,
the brain around your gut.
We have a brain around the gut
that is bigger in size and way
bigger in activity than
the brain in your skull.
And at any given time,
for a healthy person,
the brain in your gut should
be producing about 90%
of your serotonin.
And this production is
damaged, is hindered
by all these chemicals.
But that is not where the
damage of these chemicals stop.
These chemicals then go
circulate in your blood.
Many of them are irritant.
They're oxygenate.
That's why antioxidants are
so good during cleansing
and detoxification
and life in general.
And they irritate the tissues.
And the body has two defending
itself, which are generic ways.
One of them is the
body produces mucus
to coat these chemicals so that
they buffer the irritation.
Or it retains or even generates
more fat because, as we said,
most of these chemicals are
lipophilic, or fat loving.
They don't dissolve in water.
They dissolve in fat.
So they attach to fat.
Now, if you just sweat
it off and force the body
into burning fat
without creating
the conditions for the
body to be able to cleanse
and detoxify and neutralize
and make these chemicals
water soluble so that it can
be sweat it off and peed off--
so you're burning
fat but not really
getting rid of the toxins--
these toxins are left
to cause the damage
that they were not
causing because they
were surrounded by fat.
And so you're forcing something
that the body's trying to do.
You're forcing against
the body's will.
The body's retaining
fat and even
generating fat in
order to defend itself
against the irritating
consequence of these chemicals.
But you are saying, no,
that's not what we need to do.
I want to burn it out
because I want to look good.
And the toxins are free,
then, to cause havoc.
These chemicals grow
into your blood.
After killing the good
bacteria, after damaging
your intestinal wall, after
irritating your immune system
and depleting your nervous
system, they start circulating.
The body detects this
irritation and either generates
mucus or fat.
Mucus surrounds or
coats these chemicals
and then sticks to
tissues and cells.
Why is this happening?
Because these chemicals,
which the body-- most of them,
the body has the ability
to cleanse and detoxify,
cannot be done because the
body is so busy digesting.
Most of us are eating 2,
3, 4, 5, 6 times a day,
if you follow some
of the new fad diets.
So as the body spends
its energy digesting,
as the energetic budget is
being spent in digestion
all the time, then the body,
which has to distribute,
has to budget this
energy, has to take away
from different functions.
So everything is being
spent in digestion.
Energy is being stolen from
the cleansing and detox
system in our systems as well,
thinking itself is diminished
when one is digesting.
That's why, after a big meal,
the only thing you can do
is go to sleep.
The body, through
thousands of years,
gave the digestive system
a really important role
because life mostly depended
on obtaining nutrients.
And they were not so
available all the time.
You had to look for it.
And once you've
found it, you had
to eat it because you couldn't
put in a Ziploc bag or a fridge
or in a can.
So it had to be eaten
like that immediately.
And then there were
moments of feasting
and then times of famine.
And the body adapted like this.
And then the digestive system
was given such importance
that it was given its
own nervous system
and its own immune system.
So digestion was so
important in the body never
knew when the next meal
was going to come from.
So when it came, it shut
off everything else so
that it could dedicate
itself to digestion.
You get tired.
You can't move around.
Probably you heard,
don't eat and go to swim.
Because when you're digesting
and you start expending energy
in swimming, in muscle activity,
the digestive system, the gut,
has the authority to shut off
your muscles and cramp them.
And you can drown.
And in the same way, when
digestion is happening,
your thinking is
slowed down and dulled.
Your detoxification systems
are slowed down and minimized.
You are put to sleep, actually,
after a big, big meal.
So that is that the
reason why, nowadays,
since we have food available
24/7 and we are digesting 24/7,
the detoxification
system does not
get its allocated budget daily.
So it runs behind.
Now, these toxins that now are
circulating and cannot be dealt
with have to be buffered, have
to be hidden, in the hope that,
at some point, you
would stop digesting.
And when that happens, they are
rereleased into the circulation
so that they can pass
through the liver,
be neutralized,
made water soluble,
and then eliminated
in the urine.
So that is why most cleansing
and detoxification programs
have one thing in
common, which is you
will be digesting so much less.
It is either juicing or
eating less or just water.
Those are the intense ways
of cleansing and detoxifying.
So the moment the
digestive system
is not working that
intensely anymore,
the body says, wow, this is
our opportunity to cleanse
and detoxify.
So it will release,
rerelease, all these toxins
into the circulation.
And these toxins, many
of them, are oxidants.
And that's why, in
the initial phases
and throughout any good
cleansing and detox program,
one should be loaded with
antioxidants because now you
will have an even more toxic
state than before you started--
before you started,
everything was being--
it's like the garbage.
It was floating.
It was being put
under the carpet.
When you started cleansing
and detox program,
it's like lifting the carpet
and letting it all go loose.
So you have to take
a lot of antioxidants
so that this
recirculating toxins,
in their way to the liver,
don't cause more damage.
The liver detoxifies
these toxins
in two steps, phase
one and phase two.
In phase one, there's
a chemical reaction
that happens that
turns the chemical that
was toxic into an even
more toxic chemical
or an intermediate metabolite.
In a normally functioning
liver, immediately,
phase two
detoxification kicks in
and renders that molecule
non-toxic and water soluble so
that then it can be excreted
through the urine or the sweat
or the feces because
there's a lot of water
going through the feces, too.
Now, that is why cleansing
and detoxification
has to be done in a way that
is understood because you have
to support these reactions
in the liver, which are all
dependent on certain nutrients.
The liver needs all these
nutrients as raw materials
to do their work.
They mix a chemical
with another chemical.
And these chemicals
aren't nutrients.
Even the toxins came from
mostly from what we eat.
So if these chemicals, if these
nutrients, are not available
the liver won't be
able to do its work.
Sometimes the chemicals that
are responsible for phase one
detoxification are
more readily available,
are easier to obtain,
than the chemicals
that are needed for phase two.
And somebody that's not
supporting their cleansing
and detoxification
processes correctly
may have enough nutrients
to go through phase one
and create intermediate
metabolites that
are really toxic and not enough
to process them through phase
two, leaving these people in
an even toxier state than when
they started.
This is what happens with
the master cleanse and water
fasting and some juice fasts.
So the understanding of
the detoxification process
that is in the liver
is really important
when one is designing a
cleansing and detoxification
program.
What these programs are
lacking is an understanding
of the cleansing and
detoxification processes.
And this is tied up to what
we were talking before.
When you force the fat to
melt without supporting
the body in eliminating the
toxin that the fat was there
to protect the body from, that
is when you get into trouble.
The concept that genes are a
life sentence is incorrect.
We know now that, other than
the genes of your eye color
and your heights and
your hair, most genes
can be turned on and off.
And the way the genes are
turned on and off mostly
is by nutrients, so through
the foods that we eat.
Now, what most people don't
really understand or don't
really pay attention to is
that the body does not have
an inner design for disease.
The only thing that the
body knows what to do
and is designed to do
is to survive and adapt.
So I think that there
are no diseases.
There are a few diseases
like, for example,
genetic mistakes like Down
Syndrome and things like that.
There are other diseases
that are infectious.
But most of the
diseases of modern life,
the chronic diseases which
we call like coronary artery
disease and diabetes, they are
actually the body perfectly
trying to survive.
And what's happening is
that the disease is what
the body is trying to survive.
For example, I'm a cardiologist.
And I see a lot of coronary
artery disease, which
is one of the leading causes
of death in the United States
and around the world today.
Now, coronary artery disease
is not really a disease.
This is what's happening.
The arteries are
getting irritated,
either by high blood pressure,
smoking, or many other things.
And the body perfectly tries
to survive that irritation
by patching the artery
with cholesterol.
Now, if the
irritation continues,
there's more patching, more
patching, more patting.
And suddenly, the
survival mechanism
ends up killing you just because
the irritation never stopped.
Now, once the irritation stops,
the cholesterol is reabsorbed
and the arteries unclogged.
And this was proven by Dean
Ornish in California and San
Francisco, who did cardiac
catheterizations on people
and saw their arteries
completely blocked up and put
them on a vegetarian diet,
meditation, and group therapy.
Repeated a cardiac
catheterization
six months later, and the plaque
was completely disappearing.
So we know the body is
adapting all the time.
And in my opinion, there are
no diseases of this type.
The disease is a lifestyle
that is causing the body
to try to survive.
So genes-- genes are
there to trigger or stop
survival mechanisms as well.
So the moment that the
body, through whatever
you're exposed to, through the
nutrients that are coming--
or not coming because the
lack of certain nutrients
also turns on and off diseases
and turns on and off genes--
so the moment the body
detects these things,
it turns on or off its
survival mechanisms.
And this is how genes work.
And this is how nutrients affect
us in such a profound way.
Government organization,
government offices
like the FDA, don't really
understand the implications
of these chemicals.
What they do is
they test in rats.
And they talk about
a 50% death dose.
They give doses to mice.
And they see how many
mice die of that dose
and the lethal dose of certain
medications or chemicals.
But they don't really consider
of what these chemicals are
doing in your organism and much
less the synergy between them.
Today, it's impossible for us to
even study in a controlled way
the all the influences that
are affecting human health, not
only with chemicals but also
with radioactivity and stress
at work and the toxic intentions
that people have like greed
and the results like anger.
There are no
diseases that I know
of that do not respond to
changes in dietary habits.
And in my experience, if
you get a charismatic person
and you put a lab coat on them
and you start sending them
patients, and the only
thing that this person does
is, after listening and chatting
a little bit, distracting them
so they didn't realize
they're not a doctor--
the only thing they do as a
consequence of their visit
is put these people on the
elimination diet, basically
no sugar, no wheat, no
dairy products, no coffee,
no alcohol, no red meat, and no
processed food with chemicals.
Just by doing that,
judging by the results
that this doctor would
obtain, he or she
would be named the best doctor
in America in very short time
because it is my experience
that just doing that improved
60% of the general
symptoms that people
come with from modern diseases.
It's everything from dandruff
to autoimmune diseases, diseases
in which your immune system
gets confused and starts
attacking your own tissues.
Now, these diseases are
not really well understood.
In my opinion, in
my understanding,
in my experience, what I see,
these diseases start in the gut
as most diseases do.
And the immune system around
the gut, when it's exposed to
undigested food--
and the reason we
exposed our immune system
to undigested food is
because, between the food
and the immune
system, there should
be a healthy layer of intestinal
flora, of good bacteria,
and an intact intestinal wall.
When the intestinal wall is
broken, leading to a condition
called leaky gut syndrome,
and when the intestinal flora
is decimated or,
even worse, changed
into bacteria that are
not supposed to be there
because of the
conditions we create,
the immune system then
is not only attack
by the chemicals in our food,
by the bad bacteria, parasites,
or whatever microorganisms
are there, but also
by undigested food.
The immune system
should never be
exposed to food that
is not broken down
into its minimal components,
proteins into amino acids,
fat into glycerol and
esters, and carbohydrates
into complex carbohydrate--
simple carbohydrates.
Those are the ones that are
immunologically neutral.
The building blocks
of foods, when
they're exposed to the immune
system, the immune system
just lets them pass.
But as the food starts being
exposed to the immune system
and it's not fully digested,
now the immune system
starts making out the
surfaces of wherever
these foods come from.
And it recognizes
them as foreign.
So it builds attacks.
This is what happened to me last
night when I ate some bread.
My immune system
recognized this as a threat
and started building an attack
and started getting crazy,
started making me sneeze
because it got confused.
It thought that something
was coming through the air.
Cosmetics is only one aspect
of-- an important aspect
of the things that
we have to watch
when we are paying
attention to the toxins
that we're exposed to.
Why?
Because, in a way, our skin is
very similar to our intestines.
Intestines is skin
turned in, right?
And it just takes a little
bit of a different function.
The skin keeps things out.
The intestine puts
things in, mostly.
But they are both
functions in both.
The skin also absorbs.
And the gut also
keeps things out.
So anything that you put on your
skin you should be able to eat.
Otherwise, don't
put it on your skin
because it's going to
end up in your blood.
So yes, definitely, cosmetics
are an important aspect
that one should pay
attention to when
one is willing or wanting to
keep safe from chemicals today.
But not the only one.
I talk with my patients about
their cleaning products,
their detergents to do their
laundry, their cars, the hair
products.
I mean, the list is endless.
I sometimes go into my patients'
homes and start taking a look
at where the sources
of toxicity come from,
from non-filtered water to--
There was a case-- this
was not a patient of mine.
But this is a doctor
that I know well, told me
a story of this woman
who had the worst
nightmares and, during the
night and during the day,
the worst headaches
and migraines headaches
until this doctor that was aware
of the toxicity of radiation
and magnetism went to
her house and figured out
that the moment that this woman
started having these symptoms
was the moment that they
installed a new generator
for electricity in their home.
And her bedroom
was right on top.
Well, how did he figure it out?
Because, when she went on
vacation or some nights,
where she slept in
the guest house,
she didn't have the symptoms.
So there are many,
multiple sources
of toxicity in one's home.
And food is only one of them.
The list goes on and on.
There's an amazing book
that you guys should read.
It's called "The Hundred-Year
Lie" by Randall Fitzgerald.
The author, in one of
the initial chapters,
describes a standard
American citizen,
waking up and walking in his
bedroom towards the bathroom
and washing their teeth and
names about 25 chemicals that
are in most average American
houses that are either
a carcinogen or damage
reproductive systems.
I mean, the list is scary
when you think about it.
But it starts as
the person wakes up,
from his mattress
that was heavily--
a mattress that was heavily
sprayed with fire retardant,
that off gases.
And you breathe these chemicals.
Then walking on the floor, and
there was wax on the floor.
And then, in the end,
arriving to toothpaste
with fluoride and other
preservatives and tasting
agents.
The clean program is both a
cleansing and detox program
and a gut repair program.
The cleansing and
detox aspect of it
is made possible by reduction
of the work of digestion.
How do we achieve that?
By having a liquid breakfast
and a liquid dinner and only
a solid lunch.
Now, all the foods, from
breakfast, dinner, and lunch,
must be from the
elimination diet, which
means there's a list of
foods that are allowed
and a list of foods
that are not allowed.
And this, in this way,
make things simple.
The reason why the foods that
are not allowed are not allowed
is because they are irritant.
They are difficult for
the body to digest.
They are loaded with chemicals.
They cause food allergies,
food sensitivities.
And they make people
toxic and sick.
So this aspect of triggering
what I call a detox mode
is achieved by
reducing the workload
of the digestive system.
Other aspects of
the clean program
are antioxidant protection
for the times where
these toxins are rereleased
into the blood and nutritional
support for the liver phase one
and phase one detoxification
as well as enhancing aspects for
the channels of elimination--
sweat, urine, and feces.
That is all about cleansing
and detoxification.
But there's also an
aspect of gut repair,
which most cleansing and detox
programs don't even address.
What is that?
It's killing the bad
bacteria with herbs
and with herbal antimicrobials.
It's replanting the good
bacteria with probiotics.
And it's giving the body--
and creating the conditions,
giving the body all
the nutrients that
are necessary for gut repair
like glutamine and others
as well as nutrients that
calm the immune system
and that replenish
the nervous system.
For the first part,
for the part when
as you reduce the workload
of the digestive system,
the body goes into detox mode
and rereleases all these toxins
that were trapped and
coated with mucus,
antioxidants are
really important.
Then all the nutrients that
support liver detoxification,
which are certain proteins
and magnesium, sulfur,
the reaction of phase one and
phase two chemical reactions
are called glycosidation,
sulfation, methylation.
So each one of these chemicals,
these chemical reactions,
require certain nutrients.
And all those nutrients
are provided in order
to support detoxification
nutritionally.
Then there's herbal
antimicrobials
like oregano oil,
berberine, wormwood,
and things like
that that will make
it difficult for bad
bacteria to survive.
Then there's probiotics
to replant good bacteria.
And then there's specialized
nutrients like-- for example,
the wall of the intestine,
just like your skin,
when cells are damaged
or cells are shed,
other cells have
to grow and occupy
that space so there's no holes.
Imagine your skin
with a bunch of holes.
It'll get infected.
It will irritate itself.
The same thing
happens in your gut.
So in order for these cells to
really fabricate and reproduce
themselves, they need
a lot of glutamine.
And glutamine, which is
an essential amino acid,
is usually not provided that
well with our modern diet
and combination of foods.
So glutamine, L-glutamine
is one of the nutrients
that really does its trick.
And there's other ones
like tumeric for appeasing
the inflammatory responses.
When one starts to
detoxify and cleanse,
the first thing that
people experience
is the breaking of habits.
And the breaking habits is one
of the hardest things to do.
So people get
withdrawal symptoms.
And just like a heroin addict
that goes through withdrawal
gets physical pain from it
because, in part, the heroin
or whatever the drug is
appeasing the pain in a way--
So withdrawal symptoms
are one of the big things
that people go
through that cause
not only physical pain
but many other symptoms.
And then there is
the symptoms that
appear from that phase
of hyper-toxicity
or increased toxicity
from when you started,
which comes from the
body rereleasing all
these toxins back
into the circulation
like when we compared
it to lifting the carpet
and letting all the dust free.
So those are the two reasons why
people suffer a lot of symptoms
during cleansing detoxification.
People that are
addicted to substances
are not really addicted to
those substances themselves
but to the state that
those substances give them.
In terms of foods,
these addictions
really correlate a lot
with hormonal states.
So people that drink coffee
and smoke cigarettes,
they want hyperadrenergic state.
They want a more alert state.
Now, if the only thing that you
do is take away the stimulant,
then there's going to
be a big disbalance.
But if you do other
things together
that tend to balance
your hormonal states,
then the addiction itself
is or the withdrawal
of whatever it is that
one is addicted to
is much easier to withstand.
And that's why, with
the clean program,
we see so many people
just commenting
on how much easier than they
thought it was to get rid
of coffee and
cigarettes and alcohol
and many of the chemicals and
foods or foodlike products
that you use in order to induce
these altered hormonal states.
Yeah, what's happening
is that, during cleansing
and detoxification, if you
support things nutritionally
in the right way, then
you are balancing your,
for example, sugar levels.
Sugar levels are
one of the reasons
why people seek for stimulants.
When your sugar
levels go down, you
have a slump in perceived
sense of energy.
And you take the stimulant
in order to overcome that.
But when you do
the clean program,
we provide you
with nutrients that
are plant derivatives that will
stabilize your sugar levels.
So the craving itself will not
be generated, you understand?
So you take off the
stimulant, but the sugar level
is stabilized.
So the craving doesn't come
as hard as when you just
take the chemical that
you were addicted to.
So when you start a
cleansing and detox program,
one should talk to somebody
that knows and understands,
you know, which medications
should be discontinued?
Which medications
cannot be discontinued?
And which medications
will either
affect cleansing
and detoxification,
or cleansing and detoxification
will affect their blood levels,
becoming dangerous?
For example, if
you're an epileptic
and you need an
anti-epileptic, there
needs to be a certain level
of this medication in blood.
But when you're cleansing
and detoxifying,
all the absorption
conditions change.
So the anti-epileptic
could be either absorbed
too much and become toxic
itself or too little,
leading to an epileptic crisis.
The same thing is
with antiarrhythmics,
same thing with anti-blood
clotting medications.
And there's a few more.
In a funny way, the
first advice that I
would have to a
person like that is
don't do it for that,
because then it's
a little bit like the
superficial way of doing things
that, in many cases, it leads
to problems in themselves.
Cleansing and detoxification,
as a side effect,
will make you lose weight,
will make your eyes white,
will make your skin glow.
There's no need to
think about that.
Those are side effects of
cleansing and detoxification.
So cleansing and
detoxification leads to beauty
as a side effect.
Not necessarily one has
to go into cleansing
and detoxification to look good.
But that would be the
result. And if one
goes into cleansing and
detoxification to look good,
then they will be
surprised not only
by how good they look but
by how good they feel.
If you are flying in a plane
and the plane starts falling,
wouldn't you want to know how
to operate your parachute?
We are living in a state
in the world that's
comparable to a falling plane.
And your detoxification
system is your parachute.
Either you learn how to use it,
or you'll crash in the ground.
[MUSIC PLAYING]